                                        SQL WORKSHEET-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to 
answer your question.

1.    Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?

A) Create                                                                       
B) Update
C) Delete                                                                       
D) ALTER

Ans: A) Create and D) ALTER

2.    Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?

A) Update                                                                    
B) Delete
C) Select                                                                       
D) Drop

Ans: A) Update and B) Delete

Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer 
your question.

3.    Full form of SQL is:

A) Strut querying language 
B) Structured Query Language
C) Simple Query Language 
D) None of them

Ans: B) Structured Query Language

4.    Full form of DDL is:

A) Descriptive Designed Language 
B) Data Definition Language
C) Data Descriptive Language   
D) None of the above.

Ans: B) Data Definition Language

5.    DML is:

A) Data Manipulation Language 
B) Data Management Language
C) Data Modeling Language  
D) None of these

Ans: A) Data Manipulation Language

6.    Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with 
column B int type and C   float type?

A) Table A (B int, C float)  
B) Create A (b int, C float)
C) Create Table A (B int,C float)
D) All of them

Ans: C) Create Table A (B int,C float)

7.    Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float 
type) to the table A created above?

A) Table A ( D float)                                                         
B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
C)  Table A( B int, C float, D float) 
D) None of them

Ans: B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float

8.    Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in 
the above question?

A) Table A Drop D  
B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
C) Delete D from A    
D) None of them

Ans: B) Alter Table A Drop Column D

9.    Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type 
(from float to int ) of the column D of
table A created in above questions?

A) Table A (D float int)  
B) Alter Table A  Alter Column D int
C) Alter Table A D float int 
D) Alter table A Column D float to int

Ans: B) Alter Table A  Alter Column D int

10.  Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. 
By which of the following
statements we can do it?

A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B  
B) Alter table (B primary key)
C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B  
D) None of them

Ans: A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B 

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.

11.  What is data-warehouse?

Ans: 
Data warehousing is the electronic storage of a large amount of data/information by a business or organization or individual. 
In other way we can say it is a central repository where information is stored and the information is coming from one or more data sources 
which allows business users to quickly access data as per their requirement from some sources all in one place. The main purpose of this is
to run query and analysis on historical data derived from transactional sources for business intelligence and data mining purposes.


12.  What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?

Ans: 
OLTP means "Online Transaction Processing (OLTP)", which captures, stores, and processes data from transactions in real time. 
OLAP means "Online Analytical Processing (OLAP)", which uses complex queries to analyze aggregated historical data from OLTP systems.

So here we can say that, data warehouse is the example of OLAP system. It is used for maintaining the online transaction and record integrity
in multiple access environments.OLTP is a system that manages very large number of short online transactions e.g. ATM, retail sales, and 
financial transaction systems, etc.

13.  What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?

Ans: 
Mainly there are four data warehouse characteristics. These are,
1) Integrated: The way data is extracted and transformed is uniform, regardless of the original source. 
2) Time-variant: Data is organized via time-periods (days, weekly, monthly, annually, etc.). 
3) Non-volatile: A data warehouse is not updated in real-time.
4) Subject Oriented: A data warehouse is always a subject oriented as it delivers information.

14.  What is Star-Schema??

Ans: 
As it is said Star-Schema, so it is looks like star where in data warehouses it is the simplest style of data mart schema and the approach
most widely used to develop data warehouses and dimensional data marts.The star schema consists of one or more fact tables referencing any number
of dimension tables. Star schemas are optimized for querying large data sets and are used in data warehouses and data marts to support OLAP cubes,
business intelligence and analytic applications, and ad hoc queries.

15.  What do you mean by SETL?

Ans: 
SETL is a high-level programming language that's based on the mathematical theory of sets.It was developed in the early 1970's by mathematician Professor J.

But here i guess the question is about ETL, which is "Extract, Transform and Load", three database functions that are combined into one tool to pull 
data out of one database and place it into another database. Extract is the process of reading data from a database, Transformation occurs by using rules
or lookup tables or by combining the data with other data and Load the data into a destination database.

