ANSWER FOR DEEP LEARNING — WORKSHEET 4

Q1 to Q8 are MCQs with only one correct answer. Choose the correct option.

1. Which answer explains better the Flattening?
A) Once we have the pooled feature map, this component transforms the information into a vector. It's the
input we need to get on with Artificial Neural Networks.
B) It is the last step of CNN
C) Transform images to vectors to make it easier to predict.
D) Delete unnecessary features to make our dataset cleaner.

Ans: C

2. What is the biggest advantage utilizing CNN?
A) It works well both for Supervised and Unsupervised Learning.
B) Little dependence on pre-processing, decreasing the needs of human effort developing its functionalities.
C) It normalizes (changes) all the input before sending it to the next layer
D) None of the above

Ans: A

3. In CNN, having max pooling always decrease the parameters?
A) True B) False

Ans: A

4. Following are some of the layers used in CNN? Choose the correct order in which they are placed in a CNN.
i) Pooling
ii) Flatten
iii) Convolution
iv) Fully Connected
v) ReLU Activation

A)3-1-5-2-4 B)3-5-1-2-4
C)2-3-1-5-4 D)3-1-5-4-2

Ans: A

5. If I= Input Size, F = Kernel size, P = Padding, S = Strides, then for calculating Convoluted matrix size, which
of the following formula we may use?

Ans: C

6. The input matrix I, Kernel F are given below. If stride is 2, what will be the convoluted matrix?
103110441

Ans: A

7. The size of input matrix is 32x32, kernel(filter) size is 8x8, if we have taken strides as 2, what will be the size
of convoluted matrix provided that there is no padding?

A) 8x8 B) 16x16
C) 32x32 D) 13x13

Ans: A


8. The Input matrix is given below. What will be the output on applying a max pooling of size 3x3 with a stride of 2?

Ans: A

Q9 and Q10 are MCQs with one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options.

9. Which of the following statements are true about strides?

A) larger the value of strides, larger is the size of feature map we get
B) larger the value of strides, smaller is the size of feature map we get
C) smaller the value of strides, larger is the size of feature map we get
D) smaller the value of strides, smaller is the size of feature map we get

Ans: Option A and D

10. Which of the following are CNN architectures?
A) ResNeXt-50 B) Inception-ResNets
C) LeNet-5 D) Hopfield Network

Ans: option A and C

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type question. Answer them briefly.

11. Describe the basic architecture of a CNN?

Ans: Convolutional Neural Network(CNN) is a class of deep neural networks, most commonly applied to analyzing visual imagery. 
Convolutional Neural Networks are state of the art models for Image Classification, Segmentation, Object Detection and many other image processing tasks.

12. What is convolution in CNN? What is the role of convolution in image processing?

Ans: The term convolution refers to the mathematical combination of two functions to produce a third function. It merges two sets of information. 
In the case of a CNN, the convolution is performed on the input data with the use of a filter or kernel (these terms are used interchangeably) 
to then produce a feature map.

13. What is the difference between Max Pooling and Average Pooling? Explain briefly.

Ans: Average pooling method smooths out the image and hence the sharp features may not be identified when this pooling method is used. 
Max pooling selects the brighter pixels from the image. It is useful when the background of the image is dark and we are interested in 
only the lighter pixels of the image.

14. What is Padding? Why is it used?

Ans: The padding property in CSS defines the innermost portion of the box model, creating space around an element's content, inside of any defined 
margins and/or borders. Padding values are set using lengths or percentages, and cannot accept negative values. The initial, or default, value for 
all padding properties is 0. The CSS padding properties are used to generate space around an element's content, inside of any defined borders. 
With CSS, you have full control over the padding. There are properties for setting the padding for each side of an element (top, right, bottom, and left).

15. Describe the layers used in classification part of a CNN?

Ans: There are three types of layers in a convolutional neural network: convolutional layer, pooling layer, and fully connected layer.
Fully connected layers are placed before the classification output of a CNN and are used to flatten the results before classification. 
This is similar to the output layer of an MLP.